.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "atexit" "3" "April 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

atexit \- Registers a function to run at process termination

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "int atexit(void (*" func ")(void));"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.BR atexit()
function registers the function pointed to by
.IR func ,
to be called without arguments at normal program termination. At normal program
termination, all functions registered by the
.BR atexit()
function are called, in the reverse order of their registration, except that a
function is called after any previously registered functions that had already
been called at the time it was registered. Normal termination occurs either by
a call to
.BR exit()
or a return from
.BR main() .

At least 32 functions can be registered with atexit().

After a successful call to any of the exec functions, any functions previously
registered by
.BR atexit()
are no longer be registered.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

Upon successful completion,
.BR atexit() 
returns 0; otherwise, it returns a non-zero value.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR exec(2) ,
.BR exit(3)
