.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "atol" "3" "April 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

atol \- Converts a string to a long integer

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "long atol(const char *" str ");"

.BI "long long atoll(const char *" nptr ");"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The call
.BI "atol(" str ")" 
is equivalent to:

.BI "strtol(" str ", (char **) " NULL ", " 10 ")"

The call
.BI "atoll(" nptr ")"
is equivalent to:

.BI "strtoll(" nptr ", (char **) " NULL ", " 10 ")"

except that the handling of errors may differ. If the value cannot be
represented, the behavior is undefined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

These functions return the converted value if the value can be represented.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR strtol(3) ,
.BR strtoll(3)
