.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "div" "3" "April 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

div \- Computes the quotient and remainder of an integer division

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "div_t div(int " numer ", int " denom ");"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.BR div()
function computes the quotient and remainder of the division of the numerator
.IR numer
by the denominator
.IR denom .
If the division is inexact, the resulting quotient is the integer of lesser
magnitude that is the nearest to the algebraic quotient. If the result cannot
be represented, the behavior is undefined; otherwise, 
.RI quotient* denom
+ remainder equal
.IR numer .

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

The
.BR div()
function returns a structure of type
.BR div_t ,
comprising both the quotient and the remainder.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR ldiv(3)
