.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "exit" "3" "April 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

exit \- Terminates the calling process

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "void exit(int " status ");"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.BR exit()
function terminates the calling process. This function first calls all functions
registered by
.BR atexit() ,
in the reverse order of their registration, except that a function is called
after any previously registered functions that had already been called at the
time it was registered. Each function is called as many times as it was
registered. If, during the call to any such function, a call to the
.BR longjmp()
function is made that would terminate the call to the registered function, the
behavior is undefined.

The value of status may be 0,
.BR EXIT_SUCCESS ,
.BR EXIT_FAILURE ,
or any other value, though only the least significant 8 bits are available to a
waiting parent process.

If a function registered by a call to
.BR atexit()
fails to return, the remaining registered functions are not called and the rest
of the
.BR exit()
processing is not completed. If
.BR exit()
is called more than once, the behavior is undefined.

The
.BR exit()
function then flushes all open streams with unwritten buffered data and close
all open streams. Finally, the process is terminated with the same consequences
as described in
.BR _exit() .

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

The
.BR exit()
function does not return.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR exec(2) ,
.BR _Exit(3) ,
.BR atexit(3) ,
.BR longjmp(3) ,
.BR tmpfile(3)
