.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "free" "3" "April 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

free \- Free allocated memory

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "void free(void *" ptr ");"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.BR free()
function causes the space pointed to by 
.IR ptr
to be deallocated; that is, made available for further allocation. If
.IR ptr
is a null pointer, no action occur. Otherwise, if the argument does not match a
pointer earlier returned by a function that allocates memory as if by
.BR malloc() ,
or if the space has been deallocated by a call to
.BR free()
or
.BR realloc() ,
the behavior is undefined.

Any use of a pointer that refers to freed space results in undefined behavior.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

The
.BR free()
function returns no value.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR calloc(3) ,
.BR malloc(3) ,
.BR realloc(3)
