.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "getenv" "3" "April 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

getenv \- Gets value of an environment variable

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "char *getenv(const char *" name ");"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.BR getenv()
function searches the environment of the calling process for the environment
variable name if it exists and return a pointer to the value of the environment
variable. If the specified environment variable cannot be found, a null pointer
is returned. The shall application ensure that it does not modify the string
pointed to by the
.BR getenv()
function.

The returned string pointer might be invalidated or the string content might be
overwritten by a subsequent call to
.BR getenv() ,
.BR setenv() ,
.BR unsetenv() ,
or 
.BR putenv() ,
but they are not affected by a call to any other function.

The
.BR getenv()
function is not thread-safe.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

Upon successful completion,
.BR getenv()
returns a pointer to a string containing the value for the specified name. If
the specified name cannot be found in the environment of the calling process, a
null pointer is returned.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR exec(2) ,
.BR putenv(3) ,
.BR setenv(3) ,
.BR unsetenv(3)
