.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "getsubopt" "3" "May 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

getsubopt \- Parses suboption arguments from a string

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "int getsubopt(char **" optionp ", char * const *" keylistp ", char **" \
valuep ");"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"


The
.BR getsubopt()
function parses suboption arguments in a flag argument. Such options often
result from the use of
.BR getopt() .

The
.BR getsubopt()
argument
.IR optionp
is a pointer to a pointer to the option argument string. The suboption arguments
are separated by <comma> characters and each may consist of either a single
token, or a token-value pair separated by an <equals-sign>.

The
.IR keylistp
argument is a pointer to a vector of strings. The end of the vector is
identified by a null pointer. Each entry in the vector is one of the possible
tokens that might be found in 
.RI * optionp .
Since <comma> characters delimit suboption arguments in
.IR optionp ,
they do not appear in any of the strings pointed to by
.IR keylistp .
Similarly, because an <equals-sign> separates a token from its value, the
application should not include an <equals-sign> in any of the strings pointed to
by
.IR keylistp .
The
.BR getsubopt()
function do not modify the
.IR keylistp
vector.

The
.IR valuep
argument is the address of a value string pointer.

If a <comma> appears in
.IR optionp ,
it is interpreted as a suboption separator. After <comma> characters have been
processed, if there are one or more <equals-sign> characters in a suboption
string, the first <equals-sign> in any suboption string is interpreted as a
separator between a token and a value. Subsequent <equals-sign> characters in a
suboption string are interpreted as part of the value.

If the string at
.RI * optionp
contains only one suboption argument (equivalently, no <comma> characters),
.BR getsubopt()
updates
.RI * optionp
to point to the null character at the end of the string. Otherwise, it isolates
the suboption argument by replacing the <comma> separator with a null character,
and updates
.RI * optionp
to point to the start of the next suboption argument. If the suboption
argument has an associated value (equivalently, contains an <equals-sign>),
.BR getsubopt()
updates
.RI * valuep
to point to the value's first character. Otherwise, it sets
.RI * valuep
to a null pointer. The calling application may use this information to
determine whether the presence or absence of a value for the suboption is an
error.

Additionally, when
.BR getsubopt()
fails to match the suboption argument with a token in the
.RI keylistp
array, the calling application should decide if this is an error, or if the
unrecognized option should be processed in another way.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

The
.BR getsubopt()
function returns the index of the matched token string, or -1 if no token
strings were matched.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR getopt(3)
