.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "rand" "3" "May 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

rand, srand \- Pseudo-random number generator

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >
.sp
.BI "int rand(void);"
.BI "void srand(unsigned " seed ");"
.fi
.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The 
.BR rand() 
function computes a sequence of pseudo-random integers in the range 
.RB "[0, " RAND_MAX ]
with a period of at least 2^32.

The rand() function is not thread-safe.

The 
.BR srand() 
function uses the argument as a 
.IR seed 
for a new sequence of pseudo-random numbers to be returned by subsequent calls to 
.BR rand() . 
If 
.BR srand() 
is then called with the same 
.IR seed 
value, the sequence of pseudo-random numbers is repeated. If 
.BR rand() 
is called before any calls to 
.IR srand() 
are made, the same sequence is generated as when 
.BR srand() 
is first called with a 
.IR seed 
value of 1.

The implementation behaves as if no function defined calls 
.BR rand() 
or 
.BR srand() .

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

The 
.BR rand() 
function returns the next pseudo-random number in the sequence.

The 
.BR srand() 
function does not return a value.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

No errors are defined.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

