.\" 
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2015 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This file is part of Nanvix.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" Nanvix is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with Nanvix.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"

.TH "unsetenv" "3" "May 2015" "Nanvix" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "NAME"

unsetenv \- Removes an environment variable

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.BI "#include <" "stdlib.h" >

.BI "int unsetenv(const char *" name ");"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The
.BR unsetenv()
function removes an environment variable from the environment of the calling
process. The
.IR name
argument points to a string, which is the name of the variable to be removed.
The named argument shall not contain an '=' character. If the named variable
does not exist in the current environment, the environment is unchanged and the
function is considered to have completed successfully.

The
.BR unsetenv()
function updates the list of pointers to which environ points.

The
.BR unsetenv()
function is not thread-safe.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"

Upon successful completion, zero is returned. Otherwise, -1 is returned,
.BR errno
set to indicate the error, and the environment is unchanged.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "ERRORS"

.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR name
argument points to an empty string, or points to a string containing an '='
character.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"

POSIX.1-2008

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "AUTHOR"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR getenv(3) ,
.BR setenv(3)
