.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.TH signal 2 "July 2013" "System Calls" "The Nanvix Programmer's Manual"
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
signal \- Manages signal handling.
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.\"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
.IR "#include <signal.h>"

.BI "sighandler_t signal(int " sig ", sighandler_t " func ");"
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
The 
.BR signal()
system call allows the calling process to choose how it will handle the next 
signal
.IR sig .
If the value of
.IR func
is
.BR SIG_DFL,
default handling for that signal occurs. If the value of
.IR func
is
.BR SIG_IGN,
the signal is ignored. Otherwise, the application shall ensure that
.IR func
points to a function to be called when that signal occurs.

When a signal 
.IR sig
occurs, and
.IR func
points to a function, the signal handler is reset to its default handler and 
then
.IR func ( sig )
is executed. If and when the function returns, if the value of 
.IR sig
was any implementation-defined value corresponding to a computational exeception
the behavior is undefined. Otherwise, the program resumes execution at the point
it was interrupted.

At program start-up signal handlers are reset to their default handlers.
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.\"
Upon successfull completion, 
.BR signal()
returns the old signal handler. Upon failure,
.BR SIG_ERR
is returned and
.IR errno
is set to indicate the error.
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH ERRORS
.\"
.TP
.BR [EINVAL]
The specified signal does not correspond to a valid signal number, or 
.IR func
points to an invalid memory location, or an attempt is made to catch a signal 
that cannot be caught, or ignore a signal that cannot be ignored.
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.\"
POSIX.1-2001
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.\"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"
.BR kill(2) ,
.BR pause(2) ,
.BR wait(2)
