.TH "signal" "2" "July 2013" "Nanvix" "User Manual"

.\ "============================================================================

.SH NAME

signal - Manages signals.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B #include <signal.h>

.B extern sighandler_t signal(int sig, sighandler_t func);

.\ "============================================================================

.SH DESCRIPTION

The 
.BR signal()
function chooses one of three ways in which receipt of the signal number 
.IR sig 
is to be subsequently handled. If the value of 
.IR func 
is 
.BR SIG_DFL, 
default handling for that signal occur. If the value of func is 
.IR SIG_IGN, 
the signal is ignored. Otherwise, the application shall ensure that 
.IR func 
points to a function to be called when that signal occurs. 

When a signal occurs, and 
.IR func
points to a function, the signal handler is reset to its default value and then
(*func)(sig) is executed. If and when the function returns, if the value of 
.IR sig
was any implementation-defined value corresponding to a computational exception, 
the behavior is undefined. Otherwise, the program resumes execution at the point
it was interrupted.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the request can be honored, 
.BR signal()
returns the value of 
.IR func
for the most recent call to 
.BR signal()
for the specified signal 
.IR sig.
Otherwise,
.BR SIG_ERR
is returned and
.BR errno
set to indicate the error.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B [EINVAL]
The sig argument is not a valid signal number or an attempt is made to catch a 
signal that cannot be caught or ignore a signal that cannot be ignored.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "CONFORMING TO"
POSIX.1-2001.

.\ "============================================================================

.SH AUTHOR
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>

.\ "============================================================================

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR signal(1)
