.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2011-2014 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.TH "tsh" 1 "January 2014" "Commands" "The Nanvix User Programmer's Manual"
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
tsh \- Command interpreter (shell)
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.\"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
.BI "tsh [" "options" "]"
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
.BR tsh
is a tiny UNIX command interpreter (shell) designed for educational purposes.
It is the program which reads, interprets and executes command lines typed by
users. It may be itself called as a command to interpret files of commands.

.TP 
.BR Commands
Each command is a sequence of non-blank command arguments separated by blanks. 
The first argument specifies the name of a command to be executed. Except for 
certain types of special arguments listed below, the arguments other than the
command name are passed without interpretation to the invoked command.

The command name is used to locate the command, by searching the directories 
in the environment variable PATH. If the command cannot be found, a diagnostic 
message is printed.

.TP 
.BR "Command Lines"
One or more commands separated by '|' constitute a chain of pipelines. The 
standard output of each command but the last is taken as the standard input of
the next command. Each command is run as a separate process, connected by pipes
(see 
.BR pipe(2) )
to its neighbors.
A
.BR "command line"
consists of one or more pipelines separated, and perhaps terminated by '&'. The
ampersand causes the preceding pipeline to be executed without waiting for it 
to finish. The process id of such pipeline is reported, so that it may be used 
if necessary for a subsequent command, like
.BR wait(1) " or " kill(1) .

.TP 
.BR "Termination Reporting"
If a command (not followed by '&') terminates abnormally, a message is printed. 
The following is a list of the abnormal termination messages:

.RS 12
.TS
l.
Killed
Aborted
Bus error
Bad math
Hangup
Illegal instruction
Interrupted
Broken pipe
Quit
Memory violation
Terminated
Alarm
Trace
Other signal
.TE
.RE 

.TP 
.BR "Redirection of I/O"
There are three two character sequences that cause the immediately following 
string to be interpreted as a special argument to the Shell itself. Such an 
argument may only at the end of a simple command.

An argument of the form 
.BI < arg 
causes the file 
.IR arg
to be used as the standard input file of the associated command.

And argument of the form 
.BI > arg 
causes the file 
.IR arg
to be used as the standard output file for the associated command.
If 
.IR arg
does not exist it is created; otherwise it is truncated.

Note that there is no way to redirect the standard diagnostic output file.

.TP 
.BR "Command Files"
If and argument is supplied to the Shell, its contents are taken as input to 
the Shell. Any Shell-detected error, or an interrupt signal, during the 
execution of a command file causes the Shell to cease execution of that file.
An end-of-file in the Shell's input causes it to exit.

.TP 
.BR "Built in Commands"
The following commands are handled specially by the Shell:

.RS 12
.TS
lB l.
cd(1)	Changes the Shell's current working directory
wait(1)	Waits for all asynchronous processes to terminate
exit(1)	Exits the Shell
.TE
.RE
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.BR --help 
Displays help information and exits.

.TP
.BR --version
Prints program version and exits.
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH NOTES
.\"
Processes that are created with '&' ignore interrupts. Also if such a process
has not redirected its input with a '<', its input is automatically redirected 
the zero length file
.BR /dev/null .
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH FILES
.\"
.BR /dev/null
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\"
.BR cd(1) ,
.BR exit(1) ,
.BR wait(1) ,
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.\"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\"
