.\"
.\" Copyright(C) 2011-2014 Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.TH "chmod" 1 "February 2014" "Commands" "The Nanvix User Programmer's Manual"
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH NAME
.\"
chmod \- Changes file's mode
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.\"
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.\"
.BI "chmod [" "options" "] <" "mode" "> <" "file" ">"
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.\"
.BR chmod 
changes the file mode bits of the file
.IR file
according to 
.IR mode ,
which is an octal number number constructed from the OR of the following modes:

.IP \[bu] 2
0001 Execute/search permission, others.
.IP \[bu]
0002 Write permission, others.
.IP \[bu]
0004 Read permission, others.
.IP \[bu]
0010 Execute/search permission, group.
.IP \[bu]
0020 Write permission, group.
.IP \[bu]
0040 Read permission, group.
.IP \[bu]
0100 Execute/search permission, owner.
.IP \[bu]
0200 Write permission, owner.
.IP \[bu]
0400 Read permission, owner.

.P
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH "OPTIONS"
.\"
.TP 
.BR --help
Display help information and exits.

.TP
.BR --version
Display program version and exits.
.\"
.\"=============================================================================
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
.\"
Pedro H. Penna <pedrohenriquepenna@gmail.com>
.\"
